From: Durahl

I'd describe the ERCF as being super needy in terms of repeatability to work properly...
But the more accurate you can build and tune it the more reliable it'll work...

My three biggest advice I can give:

1) Make sure the D-Shaped Axle doesn't resemble a Banana ( glancing angrily towards DFH )

2) Replace the 3D printed 80T Pulley with a proper Metal one.

3) 3D print a Spacer that goes between any of the Bearings and the BMGs sitting on the D-Shaft otherwise you run the risk of them wandering out of their Bearing Block Cavity not supporting the D-Shaft anymore.

From: Megahurtz

1a) I too had to replace my dfh d-shaft.  I ended up going with a stainless round shaft from amazonia
	and then used a dremel with fiber reinforced grinding wheel to nub flats onto the shaft where the
	gears grub screws went.

2a) I've a metal 80T on order.  Receive and need to integrate it - not as easy as it sounds...

3a) Haven't any issues with the block bearings wandering, but it does make sense -
	when I blow mine apart for the metal 80T, I'll likely do this.

Additional elements of feedback from MHz:

4) Larger cart count = more sensitivity.  If you only need 4 or 6 colors, get a 4 or 6 cart ercf.
   In hind sight, with my getting the 12-cart, I've made my bed for this.  The longer shafts are
   subject to more flex, especially in the middle of the span.  And, with a larger part count, the
   law of averages/murphy will rear their effin heads.  If I was doing it all again, I would go with
   2ea 6-cart (or even 3ea 4-cart) ERCFs and just mod the macros to select with stepper/gear/servo.
   gets used (T0-5 vs. T6-11).  But I am very comfortable coding something like this up using Klipper/
   Jinja.  Other's might not be willing to tackle the software mods needed for such an implementation.

5) While not rooted in an ERCF issue, the ERCF can exaserbate a latent issue.  Dragon HF hotend (SF too?)
   seemingly has some organic issues with heat creep.  In a non-ercf context, a new duct insert/fan can
   usually help provide adequate airflow to stave off any heat creep, event in a heated chamber (v2.4).
   But, when performing a high-swap-density ercf print, the repeated and rapid color swaps can overcome any
   benefit perceived to be sattributed by the duct/fan.  I went with a Dragon WHF watercooled highflow unit.
   I'll advise outcomes as things get settled in.  Ifin you're running an Afterburner with a Phaetus HF/SF
   Dragon, even if you've the duct insert add-on therein, you may end up experiencing heat creep at 150-
   250 high-density swaps (from repeatedly pulling hot filament up through the HE).  I had the Dragon HF
   and was chugging along quite nicely, until I decided on a MM print that was pretty intense with the
   swaps (a lot of very short extrusions) and then I discovered what others had previously described.  In
   an attempt to alleviate this, I've just installed a water-cooled Phaetus and will advise outcomes as
   soon as I get things back together and re-tuned.

6) A low-drama buffering solution is pretty critical.  For w/e reason, I got my arse kicked by the ERCP
   and ended up implementing a home-brew RMU-ish solution:
      https://github.com/TodWulff/-MHz-ERCF-Filament-Rack-Buffer-Tube-Assy

7) Bowden ID size dynamics...  A lot of the traffic herein reflects the sensitivity of this topic for the
   user base.  I was running 2.0/4.0 and, when I used a new filament type (MG Chemicals Gold ABS), the tip
   formed as a bulb vs. as expected with my other filaments (I typically run with KVP ABS).  That bulb got
   hung on a retract inside the extruder, just above the gears, at the edge of the bowden throat:
   https://i.imgur.com/AKRK4wA.jpg  As such, commensurate with my installing  the water-cooled HE, I've
   changed to a 3.0/4.0 reverse bowden from the encoder cart to the hot end.  Hopefully that will prove to
   lend a bit of tolerance to my setup.

8) Bowden ID chamfer:  Relatedly, I am heeding some advise I gleaned from other users herein:  Adding a
   chamfer to the ID should also help:  https://imgur.com/a/eEr7N4g

9) Don't over tighten the threaded M5 shafts - a wee bit 'loose' is OK.  Too tight and things bind.  Mounting
   will provide adequate stiffness.

10) If you change anything, it is strongly suggested that, at a minimum, you re-run ercf_calibrate.  This goes
    for bowden lengths, bowden ID changes, top hat changes, simple maintenance, and even filament changes

11) If you decide to mount the ERCF to your printer chassis, it is suggested that some sort of mechanical isolation
	is applied, otherwise the echo box that is the print chamber can amplify noises of the steppers.  I don't yet
	have a pointer to a good isolation damper, but am thinking of something along the line of lord mounts (we use
	them in aerospace for shock isolating sensitive devices such as gyros and/or various avionics LRUs).  Spring
	coil isolators are an option here too - selection of the right ones are probably pretty important.  MTF...
	https://www.amazon.com/uxcell-Female-Vibration-Isolators-Absorber/dp/B07KT44PQB

12)	For larger cart counts, it may be prudent to source a gear stepper that is beefy with ample torque - otherwise
	you might find that the load and unload speeds need to be kept down to <=50mm/s, sadly.  Unless it is built to
	high specs/standards, it is likely that the larger count units will have substantive friction on the gear axis

13)	Watercooled Hot End is useful and suggested.  BUT, do your home work and make sure that the heat break throat is
	2mm or so.  With the Dragon WHF, the heat break throat is on the order of 1.8mm (a 1.75mm bit fits with no play).
	With the ERCF, tip tuning is a thing and, if your tips aren't spot on, the tips may get hung on the heat break
	entry throat (I actually chamfered mine a bit after disassembling when I thought I had a clog).  This is not
	a readily apparant issue and can be frustrating AF.

14) Encoder ... there is a lot of traffic on the discord about these.  My recommendation is that it be heeded, and
	to make use of the new encoder cart design with adjustability features built in.  I've seen traffic about having
	to apply marker or paint to the surfaces of the gear that the encoder reads, but I've not had to go there.  I am
	actually still kicking the old style encoder cart that required a bit of filing to tune the sensor distance.

15) Sensorless homing/stall guard...  While neat, cool, and all that, imo there is no substitute for a switch when it
	comes to homing.  Now, it does make sense from an issue-detection perspective (i.e. cart hung due to filament not
	fully retracted into the feeder cart, etc.), but not for homing the cart, in my opinion.  BUT, I do have it and it
	is seemingly working.  One thing of note, fine machine oil on the shafts is good and appropriate.  Do NOT try and
	use lubes with additives like moly, ptfe, etc.  Just don't.  See #19.

16)	Toolhead sensor - just use a mechanical switch/bearing solution - you'll have a hell of a lot less issues.  I used
	my slicer (PS 2.4.x) to make a toolhead adapter that has the required negative spaces needed for the bowden, bearing
	switch, wiring path, and mating connector.  It was as simple as finding the STLs for the switch and the jst mating
	connector, cobbling them together in PS to yield a customized tool head sensor. https://i.imgur.com/dUu4s0K.png

17)	ECAS vs. PC4-M6/M10	- It is suggested to make use of PC4-M__ connectors where it makes sense.  They are moar bettar...

18) Filament Camera and LED Indication on encoder - I took the time to unsolder and reloate the sensor's LED indicator -
	having a cam monitoring the ERCF, plus having the LED overtly visible makes for a nice config, especially when cutting
	teeth with the ERCF.  Also, note the transparency of the cart to toolhead bowden.  Makes quickly referencing if it has
	filament or not uber easy.  https://i.imgur.com/OEHPBEY.jpeg  https://youtu.be/m8GtaJYdFBg?t=22

19)	If using sensorless homing, it might be useful, if you're finding that things are all of the sudden not as they should
	be, to throw a bit of appropriate lube at the linear rail shafts.  By appropriate, given I am ignorant, I am nodding
	towards what the great and powerful oz says: "Linear systems typically use lithium-based greases, with no solid additives
	such as MoS2 (molybdenum disulfide) or PTFE (Teflon), in consistency class between 0 and 3. These greases perform well
	in high-load applications and have good stability against oxidation."  (Oz = the web, cause it's never ever wrong)

	Doing this allowed me to save a print as I was starting to get 'Selector path is blocked, please check the ERCF, calling
	_ERCF_PAUSE...' during the print for no good reason...

20)	Powering the ERCF MCU..  I found that having the Xiao ERCF MCU powered via the USB as being problematic.  Sometimes it
	would just hang and klipper couldn't reset it.  I ended up using a USB hub for all my MCUs that has a power switch for
	each.  The Main MCU (Octopus v1.x in my case) has a means to defeat the usb from powering the controller.  This is good.
	When coupled with a skirt mounted power switch, I was able to reset the MCU by way of toggling printer power.  I adopted
	the same approach with the pico (lighting, discrete io, adxl spi) and the Xiao ERCF MCU and am happy.  If any of them get
	hung, just toggling the printer power resolves any issues.  On the ERCF EZY BRD, I added a 2-pin header connected to 5VDC
	and the 5V pin on the Xiao.  With a jumper cap installed, and the hub power switch off, all is right in the world, and
	angels break out into a harmonious beat box.

21)	Savox Servo & Arm...

22) tophats, gates, ...